CAFA Asessment Program

The CAFA Assessment program is designed to assess user's predictions against a standard benchmark set. This benchmark set
could be created either using the CAFA Benchmark generator or using any other software, being consistent with the format.

The CAFA Assessment program can be run in the following way:

python Assess -P <prediction filename> -B <benchmark filename>

This simple command will compare predictions in the prediction file with the benchmark and score the method accordingly.

There are a few optional parameters that be viewed by typing this command:

python Assess --help

Configuration : 

Before starting to run the main Assess program, a configuration script named "Cofigure.py" needs to be run. This script
downloads the latest version of the uniprot id-mapping file into the current directory.This file is needed to map Swiss-
Prot ids to uniprot ids in the main program.


There are a variety of metrics that can be used to assess protein function predictions. The one currently used by the
program is the protein-centric measure. So, this tries to measure how well a particular protein has been predicted. The
other metric that will be added in the future is called the term-centric measure, which checks how well a certain term in
the GO tree has been predicted. 

Output :

The output of the Assessment program is a tab delimited file with precision - recall values for every threshold at which
a prediction has been submitted. A precision-recall curve of the same is also provided to obtain graphic visualization of
the performance of the method.The curve will also help identify the best point, at which both the precision and recall
are reasonably good. The higher this average is, the better the performance of the prediction method.

Sample Files:

There is a sample benchmark file and a sample prediction file provided with the scripts for the appropriate file formats
to be used with the program and also for a look at the desired output.

Source Code :

The source code for the assessment program cabe found at this url : 
https://github.com/rajeswari284/CAFA/edit/dev/assessment/

It is open source and users are welcome to contribute to it. In case of any questions or comments regarding the program,
please send an email to any of the following:

idoerg@gmail.com
rajeswari284@gmail.com
